5 Threats, Vulnerabilities, and Mitigations - 22%

5.1 Security Policies, Security Standards, Security Procedures, Security Considerations, Data Roles and Responsibilities
Security Policies should include high-level strategies and detailed goals to explain how, what, and why.
Policies contain compliance requirements, detailed procedures, and a list of roles and responsibilities.
Acceptable use policies (AUP) explain an acceptable use of company assets and legal liability.
Policies enable continuous business activities, a disaster recovery plan, handling different security incidents, and managing and responding to them.
NIST SP800-61 is the handling guide from the National Institute of Standards of Technology - The Incident Response Lifecycle.

Security Standards - A formal definition for using security technologies and processes.
There are two notable standards: ISO (International Organization for Standardization) and NIST (National Institute of Standards of Technology).
Policies for secure passwords for no local accounts follow the Lightweight Directory Access Protocol (LDAP).
Security standards to control access to data for individuals or groups. Security issues such as expiration, contract renewal, etc.
Policies for physical controls include doors, building access, and property security. Employees vs. visitors.

Security Procedures include change management, onboarding, offboarding, playbook for scenarios, monitoring revision, etc.
Change management requires formal documentation to avoid downtime, confusion, and mistakes. Documentation includes scope of change, analysis of risk, 
  plan, management and end-user approvals, backout/rollback plan, and changes log.
Onboarding/Offboarding for new/retired accounts, workstations, and the AUP (acceptable use policies).
Monitoring and revising to constantly changing IT landscapes for new security concerns and threats.

Security Considerations should focus on regulations and legal requirements.
Regulatory requires retaining applications, data, and logs for a certain period of time. Sarbanes-Oxley Act (SOX) or HIPAA (health care)
Legal responsibilities include retaining data, reporting illegal activities, and having jurisdiction over cloud computing.

Data Roles and Responsibilities for Data Owner, Data Roles, Data Controller, Data Processor. 


5.2 Risk Management, Risk Analysis, Risk Management Strategies, Business Impact Analysis
Risk Management - Manage potential risk, qualify internal and external threats, and plan for contingencies.
Risk assessments can be one-time or continuous assessments for changing environments.
Ad hoc assessment is a one-time assessment of a specific situation or threat. The risk is not investigated again in the future.
Recurring assessments occur on standard intervals and internally mandated risk assessments.

Risk Analysis - qualitative risk assessment,
Qualitative risk assessment identifies significant risk factors for various threats (legacy Windows clients, untrained staff, No anti-virus software)
Risk assessment includes impact (low-high), rate of occurrence, cost of controls, and overall risk.
Quantitative risk assessment identifies the annualized rate of occurrence, asset value, and exposure factor. It compares single loss expectancy (SLE) to Annualized lost expectancy (ALE). 
Impact: life, property, safety, and finance.
Risk likelihood is a qualitative measurement of risk.
Risk probability is a quantitative measurement of risk.
Risk appetite describes a level of risk acceptable to the company.
Risk tolerance is an acceptable variance from the risk appetite.
The risk register documents various potential risks associated with each step and monitors the results. It includes risk indicators, risk owners, and risk thresholds.

Risk Management Strategies include avoiding, accepting, or deferring to another party.
Transfer moves the risk to another party, such as cybersecurity insurance or using a cloud-based network.
Accepting the risk as a course of business decision. Accept with exemption or exception.
Avoid the high-risk activity or mitigate the risk level.
Risk reporting identifies risks and budgeting resources to handle the tasks.

Business Impact Analysis includes recovery time objective, recovery point objective, mean time to repair, and mean time between failures.
Recovery time objective (RTO) - Time to get back up and running quickly.
Recovery point objective (RPO) - how much data loss is acceptable to bring the system back online.
Mean time to repair (MTTR) - average time required to fix an issue
Mean time between failures (MTBF) - the time between outages; statistically plan for possible outages.

5.3 Third-party Risk Assessment, Agreement Types
Third-party Risk Assessment - Categorize risk by vendor and manage the risk; share data with vendors such as cloud-based services.
Penetration testing - simulate an attack to scan for vulnerability and to mandate compliance enforceable by legal requirements.
Rules of engagement - documenting the types of testing and schedule such as IP address ranges, emergency contacts, in-scope and out-of-scope devices or applications.
Right-to-audit clauses - Have a legal contract to have the option to perform a security audit to secure data sharing and outsourcing. 
Evidence of internal audits to evaluate the effectiveness of security controls may be performed regularly as required for compliance.
Supply chance analysis - Evaluate coordination between your company and others to produce a product or service from the supplier to the customer.
Independent assessments - Use an outside firm with specialists in their field to analyze and provide options you may not have considered.
Vendor selection process - Search with due diligence to investigate and verify information, financial status, background checks, and potential conflict of interest.
Vendor monitoring - Review vendor relationship: financial health check, IT security review, news, social media posts, etc.
Use questionnaires to monitor ongoing vendor security-related questions.

Agreement Types - Common agreements include Service level agreements (SLA), Contracts with an Internet provider, Memorandum of understanding (MOU), Memorandum of Agreement (MOA),
Master Service Agreement (MSA), Work Order (WO) / Statement of Work (SOW), NDA, Business Partners Agreement (BPA).
Service Level Agreement (SLA): terms of services, uptime, response time agreement, etc.
Contract with an Internet provider: term for unscheduled downtime, technician availability, and spare equipment on-site.
Memorandum of understanding (MOU): states common goals, confidentiality statements, and letter of intent; not a signed contract.
Memorandum of Agreement (MOA): a step above MOU, conditionally agreeing to the objectives, can be a legal document but may not contain legally enforceable promises.
Master Service Agreement (MSA): Legal contract of a broad framework to cover current and future projects.
Work Order (WO) / Statement of Work (SOW): Specific list of items to be done, used in conjunction with MSA; scope of work, location, deliverables, criteria, etc.
Non-disclosure agreement (NDA) - confidentiality agreement to protect trade secrets and business activities; Unilateral or bilateral; formal contract. 
Business Partners Agreement (BPA) - Owner stake, financial contract, decision-making, contingencies for the financial crisis or disaster recovery.

5.4 Compliance, Privacy, 
Compliance - Meeting the standard of laws, policies, and regulations; penalties include fines or incarceration; scope includes domestic or international requirements.
Internal - Central Compliance Officers (CCO) internally monitor and report on compliance efforts; Compliance monitoring with due diligence/care.
External - Partners or industry regulators may require annual or ongoing reporting.
Sarbanes-Oxley Act (SOX) - Regulatory agency for public company accounting reform and investor protection act of 2002
Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPPA) - Healthcare standards for storing, using, and transmitting health care information.
Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act of 1999 (GLBA) - Disclosure of privacy information from financial institutions.
Non-compliance includes fines from $50K - $250K, one year to 10 years of prison, reputational damage, loss of license, and breach of contract. 

Privacy laws vary from local/regional to national.
State and local governments set privacy limits that are enforceable through licensing.
National privacy laws such as HIPPA are enforceable through fines and prison terms.
Global privacy laws (EX: European Union regulation) - General Data Protection Regulation are enforceable for every EU country for every individual.
Individual names, addresses, photo email addresses, bank details, medical info, and IP Address are enforceable with privacy laws. 
Protection for data subjects also includes genetic makeup, physical characteristics, and location data.
Protecting data inventory includes internal use and external use. Follow existing laws when sharing selected data.

5.5 Audits and Assessments, Penetration Tests, 
Audits and Assessments -
Penetration Tests -


5.6 Security Awareness, User Training
Security Awareness -
User Training -
