3 Security Operations - 28%

3.1 Network Infrastructure Concepts, Infrastructure Considerations
  Cloud Infrastructure - IaaS, PaaS, SaaS, etc.  Cloud security responsibility matrix.
      Hybrid considerations: A hybrid cloud with more than one public or private cloud, network protection mismatches for authentication across platforms, and different security monitoring.
      Third-party vendors in the cloud: Ongoing vendor risk assessments, including third-party impact for incident response and constant monitoring.
      Infrastructure as code: Describe an infrastructure to define servers, networks, and applications as code. Create repository versions and use descriptive comments for easy maintenance.
      Serverless architecture: Function as a Service (FaaS); when apps are separated into individual autonomous functions, run in a stateless container; 
      Microservices and APIs: API is the glue for the microservices; they are scalable, resilient, and have built-in security and compliance.
  Network Infrastructure Concepts - Physical isolation,
      Physical isolation: devices are physically separated; Customer A on one device and B on another device; Front-end web server on one rack and back-end DB on another rack.
      Virtual Local Area Networks (VLANs) separate networks logically instead of physically. Communication between VLANs through L3 device/router.
      Software Defined Networking (SDN) - Networking devices have different functional planes of operation, split the functions into separate logical units; 
        Infrastructure layer / Data plane - process the network frames and packets; forwarding, trunking, encrypting, NAT
        Control layer / Control plane - manages the data plane; routing tables, session tables, NAT tables
        Application layer / Management plane - Configure and manage the device; SSH, browser, API
  Other Infrastructure Concepts - Attacks can happen anywhere, on-premises or cloud-based.
      On-premises: You have complete control; the on-site IT team can manage security better and maintain uptime and availability;
      Centralized vs. decentralized. A centralized approach provides correlated alerts, consolidated log file analysis, and comprehensive system status. But it has a single point of failure.
      Virtualization is where each VM machine runs an operating system, and all share the same hardware.
      Virtualization => Container.  Several containers (dockers) run on an operating system installed on one hardware. Containers are run in a sandbox to isolate them from each other.
      IoT (Internet of Things) - Sensors, Smart devices, Wearable technology, Facility automation (HVAC). These IoT may have weak security protection that may cause problems to your network.
      RTOS and embedded systems also need security protection.
  Infrastructure Considerations  - Availability, Resilience, Cost, Responsiveness, Scalability, ease of deployment, risk transference, ease of recovery, patch availability, power and computing.
      Availability—System uptime is a balancing act between security and availability, monitoring, and redundant systems.
      Resilience - Something will happen; can you recover quickly? Mean time to repair (MTTR); find the root cause; replacement HW; software patch; redundant systems
      Cost—How much money is required for initial installation, ongoing maintenance, replacement or repair costs, and tax implications?
      Responsiveness - request information, speed is an important metric
      Scalability - quickly and easily increase or decrease capacity; resource challenge; Also include security monitoring.
      Ease of deployment - App has many moving parts (server, DB, firewall, etc.), and processes (HW resources, cloud budget, change control). Essential to consider during the engineering phase
      Risk Transference: Methods to minimize risk, cybersecurity insurance, recovering internal losses, and protecting against customer legal issues.
      Ease of recovery - Time is money; how quickly can you recover? Malware infection.
      Patch availability - Bug fixes, security updates, latest version check, 
      Inability to patch - This occurs frequently with embedded systems (HVAC controls, time clocks, etc.).
      Power - Lost of power, backup services (UPS - Uninterruptible power supply), generators.

3.2 Secure Infrastructures, Intrusion Prevention, Network Appliances, Port Security, Firewall Types, Secure Communication
  Secure Infrastructures - Device placement, security zones, attack surface, connectivity
      Device placement - Firewalls, separate trusted from untrusted, security checks; Honeyports, jump server, load balancers, sensors.
      Security zones - zone-based security with IP address ranges: Trusted versus Untrusted, internal versus external, severs versus databases.
      Attack surfaces—how many ways into your network? Application code, open ports, authentication process, human error. Minimize the surface by code auditing, blocking ports, and monitoring network traffic.
      Connectivity - Everything contributes to security, secure network cabling, app-level encryption, network-level encryption through IPsec tunnels, VPN connections.
  Intrusion Prevention System (IPS) - It watches network traffic and intrusions from buffer overflows or cross-site scripting vulnerabilities. Detection versus Prevention.
      Intrusion Detection System (IDS) - alarm or alert
      Prevention - stop it before it gets into the network.
      Failure modes - Fail-open is when the system fails, and data continues to flow. Fail-closed is when the system fails, and data does not flow. Fail-open is preferred to maintain the network.
      Active monitoring - The system is connected inline, and data can be blocked in real-time as it passes by; intrusion prevention is commonly active
      Passive monitoring—A copy of the network traffic is examined using a tap or port monitor; data cannot be blocked in real-time; intrusion detection is commonly passive.
  Network Appliances - Jump server, Proxies
      Jump server: Access secure network zones from outside the network using a highly secured device. Use SSH / Tunnel / VPN to connect to the jump server. This is a significant security concern.
      Proxies: Sits between the users and the external network. Useful for caching info, access control, URL filtering, and content scanning. Explicit and transparent proxies.
      Application proxies: NAT (Network address translation) is an example of a simple proxies. Most proxies in use are application proxies.
      Forward proxies pass user requests to the Internet. Reverse proxies receive requests from the Internet and pass them to internal servers (Web or DB servers).
      Open proxy is a third-party uncontrolled proxy. This can be a significant security concern.
      Balancing the load network devices distribute the load to multiple servers; large-scale implementations like server farms; fault tolerance through redundancy. 
      Active load balancing is configurable load, TCIP offload (protocol overhead), SSL offload (encryption/decryption), caching (fast response), prioritization (QoS), and Content switching (app-centric balancing).
      Sensors and collectors: aggregate information from network devices such as SIEM (Security Information Event Manager)
  Port Security: Authenticate users through the Extensible Authentication Protocol (EAP), which integrates with 802.1X (the IEEE standard for authentication).
      IEEE 802.1X and EAP: Supplicant (the client), Authenticator (the device that provides access), Authentication server (validates the client credentials).
  Firewall Types: Standard issue, control the flow of network traffic, control of inappropriate content, protection against evil.
      Network-based firewalls: filter traffic by port number or application (OSI layer 4 versus OSI layer 7); encrypt traffic like VPN; 
      UTM (all-in-one security appliance): Unified Treat Management or web security gateway; URL filter / content inspection; malware inspection; spam filter; router, switch, firewall, VPN endpoint.
      UTM devices operate at OSI layer 4.
      Next-generation firewall (NGFW): operates at OSI layer 7; application layer gateway; deep packet inspection; requires some advanced decodes for every packet.
      NGFW can control traffic flows based on the applications (MS SQL server, Twitter, YouTube). Intrusion Prevention systems (IPS) with specific application and content filtering.
      Web application firewall (WAF) - applies rules to HTTP/HTTPS conversations; allow or deny based on expected input; SQL injection.
  Secure Communication - VPN, SD-WAN, SASE
      Virtual Private Networks (VPN): encrypted data traversing a public network; concentrator (encrypt/decryption access device; HW-based or SW-based options available.
      SSL/TLS VPN (Secure Sockets layer VPN): use SSL/TLS protocol tcp/443. 
      SD-WAN: Software-defined networking in a Wide Area Network; built for the cloud; cloud-baed apps communicate directly to the cloud and do not need to hop through a central point. Does not adequately address security concerns.
      Secure Access Service Edge (SASE): next generation VPN; update secure access for cloud services; streamlined and automatic. Complete network and security solution; requires planning and implementation.

3.3 Data Types and Classifications, States of Data, Protecting Data
  Data Types and Classifications - Regulated, trade secret, intellectual property.
      Regulated data: Information governed by government laws and statutes or managed by a third party. It includes legal, financial, Personal identifier, and Protected Health information.    
      Trade Secret: Secret formulas or algorithms, often unique to an organization.  
      Intellectual property: copyright and trademark restrictions to highly visible products.
      Data types can be human-readable (clear texts or numbers) or non-human readable (encoded data, barcodes, etc)
      Data classifications: sensitive, confidential, public/unclassified, private/classified/restricted, critical
  States of Data - Data at rest, Data in transit, Data in use, Data sovereignty, Geolocation.
      Data at rest: If data is on a storage device, you may want to encrypt it or apply access permissions (access control list).
      Data in transit: data transmitted over the network. To protect the data, you may want to apply network-based protection (firewall or IPS) or provide transport encryption (TLS or IPsec).
      Data in use: Data is actively processed in memory and is unencrypted. A very attractive option to capture this data for malicious intent.
      Data sovereignty: Data residing in a country is subject to the laws of that country. Laws may prohibit where data is stored. General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR).
      Geolocation: Use location details (provided by GPS or mobile providers) to manage data access based on predefined secured or unsecured locations (inside or outside the buildings).
  Protecting Data - Geographic Restrictions, protecting data, Encryption/Decryption, Hashing, Obfuscation, data masking, tokenization, segmentation, permission restrictions.
      Geographic restrictions: network location or geolocation to determine a user's location to do geofencing.
      Protecting data: A primary job task; Data is everywhere(storage drives, on the network or cloud, or in a CPU); Need security policies for Encryption/Decryption and Access Control for data permissions.
      Encryption/Decryption: Encrypt info into unreadable data; decode encrypted text back to readable text.
      Hashing: representing data as a short string of text. This is a one-way trip; you cannot unhash a string. No collision; Use as a digital signature.
      Obfuscation: take perfectly readable code and turn in into nonsense; help prevent the search for security holes.
      Data masking: a type of obfuscation to protect PII with substitution, shuffling, or masking out with asterisks like bank card info or ID/password text.
      Tokenization: replace sensitive data with a non-sensitive placeholder, common with credit card processing. This isn't encryption or hashing.
      Segmentation: separate the data to store it in different locations; requires compromising all the DB sites to gain successfully useful information.
      Permission restriction: control access to an account, The authentication process, and Permissions after login.

3.4 Resiliency, Capacity Planning, Recovery Testing, Backups, Power Resiliency
  Resiliency -
  Capacity Planning -
  Recovery Testing -
  Backups -
  Power Resiliency - 
