2 Security Architecture - 18%

2.1 Threat Actors are malicious attackers responsible for harming the safety or security of another entity.
  Internal/external attackers - resources/funding, level of sophistication/capability.
  Motivations include data exfiltration, espionage, service disruption, blackmail, revenge, war, etc.
  Nation states - external threats from governments/nations for revenge, disruption, or war; Advanced Persistent Threat (APT)
  Threat Actors: Unskilled attackers, hacktivists, insider threats, organized criminals, shadow IT, and Nation states.

2.2 Common Threat Vectors, Phishing, Impersonation, Watering Hole Attacks, Social Engineering Attacks
  Common threat vectors - Message-based vectors (emails and SMS), Image-based vectors (XML), File-based vectors (doc, pdf, zip files), Voice call vectors (Vishing or Call tampering),
      Infected USB drives, vulnerable software vectors, unsupported systems vectors, unsecured network vectors, open service ports, default credentials, and supply chain vectors.
  Phishing - Links in emails or SMS. Social engineering with a touch of spoofing. Tricks and misdirection. Typosquatting, pretexting, Vising (voice phishing), and Smishing (SMS phishing).
  Impersonation - Attackers pretend to be from an authority such as a government agency, bank, or family to gain your trust. Eliciting personal information for identity fraud.
  Watering Hole Attacks - An attack on the 3rd party systems that the company deals with to attack the company eventually. Need layered security (defense-in-depth) through firewall, anti-virus, and anti-malware software.
  Social Engineering Attacks involve misinformation or disinformation. Fake news creates confusion and division. To elevate fake news, fake accounts, brand impersonation, and impersonated sites are used.

2.3 Memory Injections, Buffer Overflows, Race Conditions, Malicious Updates, OS Vulnerabilities, SQL Injection, Cross-site Scripting, Hardware Vulnerabilities,
  Memory Injections - inject malicious code into a running process. DLL injection.
  Buffer Overflows - overwriting a buffer of memory to execute malicious code.
  Race Conditions - Time-of-check to time-of-use (TOCTOU).  
  Malicious Updates - Always update systems for bug fixes and security patches. But not every update is equally secure. Have backups and install from trusted sources.
  OS Vulnerabilities - Update the OS as soon as possible for bug fixes and security patches. Test before deployment. Have good backups available.
  SQL Injection - inject code into the SQL query to access the entire DB. EX: "SELECT * FROM users WHERE name = 'Nguyen' OR '1' = '1'"; 1=1 is always TRUE.
  Cross-site Scripting - XSS. One of the most common web app vulnerabilities. Browser security flaws. XSS commonly uses JavaScript code in the edit box on a webpage.
      Keep browsers updated, consider disabling Javascript, check input for Javascript code, and never blindly click on links from emails or text messages.
  Hardware Vulnerabilities—IoT. HWs are controlled by embedded firmware. Manufacturers may delay firmware patches or the End of Life (EOL) of products, including legacy devices and software.


2.3 Virtualization Vulnerabilities, Cloud-specific Vulnerabilities, Supply Chain Vulnerabilities, Misconfiguration Vulnerabilities, Mobile Device Vulnerabilities, Zero Day
  Virtualization Vulnerabilities - Local privilege escalations, command injection, information disclosure. VM escapes to another VM to control the host and other guest VMs.
  Cloud-specific Vulnerabilities include DoS or DDoS, authentication bypass, directory traversal, remote code execution, web app attacks, Cross-site scripting (XSS), and out-of-bounds Write.
  Supply Chain Vulnerabilities - Attackers can infect any moving parts along the chain. People falsely trust their suppliers. 
      Companies use service providers for various IT tasks. Attacking the service providers also indirectly attacks the company. Need security audit of the service provider.
      Hardware providers also need to be audited for security. Use a trusted supplier base to ensure proper security.
      Software providers - software updates should be authenticated with their digital signatures. Solar Wind Orion virus gained access to many Fortune 500 companies and federal agencies.
  Misconfiguration Vulnerabilities: Accidentally providing access through open permissions; unsecured admin accounts or easy-to-hack passwords; use of insecure protocols like telnet, FTP, SMTP, or IMAP.
      Default settings on apps or devices provide access to the network. Mirai botnet (open sources) checks for IoT device default configurations to gain network access.
      Open ports and services require a firewall to manage traffic flows. 
  Mobile Device Vulnerabilities - challenging to secure due to its relatively small size, always in motion, packed with sensitive data, and constantly connected to the internet.
      Android is rooting, which allows one to gain access to the device's root to install or replace the existing OS or application.
      Apple iOS jailbreaking is similar to Android rooting.
      Sideloading malicious apps can circumvent security and bypass any Mobile Device Management (MDM).
  Zero Day - An attack without a patch or method of mitigation. A race to exploit the vulnerability or create a patch.
      Common Vulnerabilities and Exposure (CVE) at HTTP://cve.mitre.org


2.4 An Overview of Malware, Viruses and Worms, Spyware and Bloatware, Other Malware Types, Physical Attacks, Denial of Service, DNS Attacks, Wireless Attacks
  An Overview of Malware: Malicious software that gathers information, shows ads, or encrypts data for ransom. 
      Viruses, worms, ransomware, trojan horses, rootkits, keyloggers, spyware, bloatware, or logic bombs.
      Malware infects the system through email links, web page pop-ups, drive-by downloads, or worms.
  Viruses and Worms are malware that can reproduce by executing a program and spreading through the network. You can use Anti-virus and update the virus signatures.
      Virus types include program viruses, boot sector viruses, script viruses, or macro viruses.
      Fileless viruses operate in memory but never install in a file or application. Referred to as a stealth attack.
      Worms are malware that self-replicates and uses the network to spread quickly. Firewalls and IDS/IPS can mitigate worm infestations, but they are useless once the worm gets inside.
      Wannacry worm is a famous worm that spreads through the network to infect other systems and encrypts the data for ransom.
  Spyware and Bloatware -
      Spyware is malware that spies on you through browser monitoring or keylogging to steal your identity. Anti-virus or anti-malware to detect it. 
      Bloatware is a type of malware that manufacturers may preload to your system. It causes overall resource usage by slowing down your system.
  Other Malware Types - Keyloggers capture keystrokes for web login (userID/password) and circumvent encryption protections by capturing keystrokes.
      The logic bomb waits for a predefined event/time to activate. It is difficult to identify or recover. Constant auditing should include formal change control and electronic monitoring of OS core files.
      Rootkits modify core system files as part of the kernel. Prevent rootkits by using a secure boot with UEFI.
  Physical Attacks - Physical access to the system. There should be no open access to the systems. 
      RFID cloning can duplicate access badges or bank cards. Use Multi-factor authentication (MFA) to prevent RFID attacks.
      Environmental attacks through power outages, HVAC tempering, or fire suppression.
  Denial of Service - Force service to fail. DoS can also be a smoke bomb for another attack. 
      Friendly DoS includes using all available bandwidth to download something, Network DoS from layer-2 loop, or water line breaks.
      DDoS is a distributed denial-of-service attack perpetrated by many systems from different locations, such as botnets. The Zeus botnet infected over 3.6 million PCs.
      An asymmetric threat is when the attacker may have fewer resources than the victim.
      Use protocols without authentication or checks to amplify traffic data (IE. NTP, DNS, ICMP).
  DNS Attacks - Spoofing or Poisoning. Modify the DNS server; modify the client host file; send a fake response to a valid DNS request;
      Domain hijacking by brute force; social engineering the password; gaining access to the email address that manages the account.
      URL hijacking - Typosquatting or brandjacking of misspelled names or phishing sites.
  Wireless Attacks - Original wireless standards did not add protection for management frames which can be easily attacked by deauthenticating the attached device to prevent connection to the Wifi.
      Radio frequency (RF) jamming - Transmit interfering wireless signals; DoS for all devices to wireless communication. 
      wireless jamming types include constant random bits, reactive jamming; Time to go fox hunting with directional antenna or attenuator.


2.4 On-path Attacks, Replay Attacks, Malicious Code, Application Attacks, Cryptographic Attacks, Password Attacks, Indicators of Compromise, Segmentation and Access Control
  On-path Attacks - AKA man-in-the-middle attack. redirect your traffic.
      ARP poisoning is an on-path attack on the local IP subnect. ARP has no security or encryption protection.
      On-path browser attack (AKA main-in-the-browser). malware/trojan does all of the proxy work to capture login info to social websites, finacial websites, etc.
  Replay Attacks - Network tap, ARP poisoning, malware to steal user login info to replay the session.
      Pass the hash is when the attacker intercept the login session to the server to steal username and hashed password for replay attack.
      Header manipulation includes sessions IDs that can be gathered with Wireshark, Kismet, cross-site scripting exploits.
      Browser cookies and sessions IDs can be userd to get access to the server as the victim.
      Avoid replay attack with a salt, VPN, or encryption (HTTPS)
  Malicious Code - Attacks from executable, scripts, SQL injection, macro viruses, worms, Trojan horse, etc.
      Use anti-malware, firewall, continuous updates and patches.
  Application Attacks are code injection attacks that come from bad programming. Buffer overflows, SQL injection, HTML, XML, LDAP, etc.
      Privilege escalation is when attacker exploit bad code to gain complete access to the system as an administrator. 
      Prevent code injections through code patches to fix vulnerabilities, update anti-virus software, rules for data execution prevention, or use ASLR.
      Cross-site request forgery such as one-click attack XSRF or CSRF (sea surf).
  Cryptographic Attacks - Hash Collisions (MD5 encryption) or downgrade attack (SSL stripping).
      MD5 encryption is vulnerable because of hash collisions; when two or mode data inputs generate the same hash string.
      Downgrade attack is when the attacker force the systems to downgrade their security through an on-path attack. 
  Password Attacks - Some apps store passwords as plaintext. Consider hasing the password. Hash fingerprint is unique with no collision.
      Spraying attack is when attackers use common passwords to gain access to victim accounts.
      Brute force attack is trying every possible password combination until the hash is matched.
  Indicators of Compromise (IOC) - An event that indicates an intrusion such as unusual amount of network activity, change to file hash values, 
      irregular international traffic, DNS data changes, uncommon login patterns, spike of read requests to files.
      Account lockout - exceeded login attempts, account was adminstratively disabled misteriously.
      Concurrent session usage - physical location of each session should be geagraphically closed by.
      Resource consumption - file transfers use bandwidth at unusual time, firewall shows outgoing transfer to oversea IPs
      Resource inaccessibility - server is down, network disruption, server outage, encrypted data from ransomware, brute force attack.
      Out-of-cycle logging occurs at an unexpected time. View firewall log activity.
      Missing logs is when attackers delete logs of activities they performed on the systems.
  Segmentation and Access Control - Physical, logical or virtual segmentation.
      Deletgate high-bandwidth apps to seperate networks to prevent interference with other system activities.
      Enable security to prevent users from talking directly to the database servers, or communicate through encrypted protocols.
      Access control lists (ACL) - allow or disallow traffic; restrict access to network devices.
      allow or disallow traffic by groupings of categoties such as source IP, destination IP, port number, time of day, applications, etc.
      restrict access to network devices for normal users or admin users.
      User list of permisions such as Read/Write to files, access to certain network or ports.
      Application allow list or deny list: Allow list is very restrictive and nothing runs unless its on the allow list. Deny list is nothing bad can be executed (ex: anti-virus, anti-malware list)

2.5 Mitigation Techniques, Hardening Techniques, Cloud Infrastructures, Network Infrastructure Concepts
  Mitigation Techniques - Patching OS or applications. Encryption files or folders (ex: Windows EFS or full disk encryption (FDE).  
      Monitoring includes aggregate information from devices, built-in sensors for intrusion detection and logs, collectors such as IPS, firewalls, and the Security Info and Event Manager (SIEMs).
      Configuration enforcement: Each time a device connects, perform an extensive check for the OS patch version, Endpoint detection and response version (EDR), firewall status, and certificate status.
      Decommissioning - formal policy for storage devices. Recycle or destroy.
  Hardening Techniques - OS updates/service packs, security patches; user accounts are secured and account limitations; Network access and security; Monitor and secure systems with anti-virus;
      Encrypt files and folders with Windows Encrypting File System (EFS) or Full disk encryption (FDE); Encrypt all network communication; Use VPN.
      Endpoint detection and response (EDR) - A different method of threat protection that scales to meet the needs; 
      Detect a threat with malware signatures and behavioral analysis with machine learning;
      Investigate the threat using root cause analysis;
      Respond to the threat by isolate or quarantine the threat, rollback to previous config;
      Host-based firewall is a personal firewall that runs on every endpoint; Allow or disallow incoming or outgoing traffic; Identify and block unknown processes.
      Host-based intrusion Prevention System (HIPS) - recognize and block known attacks; Secure OS and app configs; built-in software for endpoint protection.
      Open ports and services - Close everything except required ports; Next-generation firewall (NGFW) applies rules and block potentially dangerous traffic.
      Nmap is a great tool for scanning ports and verifying or monitoring ongoing traffic.
      Remove unnecessary software.


