General Security Concepts - 12%

Information security - protect the data
Information system security - protect the devices that hold the data

1.1 Security Controls: Measures are implemented to mitigate risks and protect information systems and data confidentiality, integrity, and availability.
  Technical controls: Controls implemented using systems, OS controls, Firewalls and anti-virus
  Managerial controls: Administrative controls with security design and implementation, security policies, and standard operating procedures
  Operational controls: controls implemented by people instead of systems, security guards, and awareness programs
  Physical controls: limit physical access, guard shack, fences, locks, and badge readers

  Preventive control types: block access, firewall rules, security policy, guard shack checks, door locks
  Deterrent control types: discourage an intrusion, application splash screens, the threat of demotion, reception desk, and warning signs
  Detective control types: identify and log an intrusion, collect and review logs, login reports, regularly patrol the property, and motion detectors
  Corrective control types: After an event, reverse the impact and minimize downtime by restoring backups, policies for reporting issues, contacting law enforcement, and using a fire extinguisher.
  Compensating control types: Control using other means temporarily, such as a firewall to block or patch the troubled app, separation of duties, guard duties, and a generator for a power outage.
  Directive control types: display security compliance. Put sensitive files in protected folders, compliance policies and procedures, train users, sign: "Authorized only."

  Zero Trust is a security model that operates on the principle that no one, inside or outside, should be trusted by default.

  [View the Control Types.pdf]
  

1.2 The CIA Triad: Non-repudiation, Authentication, Authorization and Accounting, Gap Analysis, Zero Trust, Physical Security, Deception and Disruption
  CIA or AIC Triad refers to Confidentiality, Integrity, and Availability.
  Confidentiality: To prevent the disclosure of information to unauthorized users, use encryption and Decryption, restrict access controls, and use two-factor authentication.
  Integrity - Messages can't be modified without detection. Hashing data, digital signatures, and certificates provide proof of integrity, as does non-repudiation.
  Availability - Systems and networks must be running at all times. This includes redundancy, fault tolerance, patching to close security holes, and stability.

  Non-repudiation: Guaranteeing that a specific action or event has taken place and cannot be denied by the parties involved.
      Proof of integrity using hash for cryptography, proof of origin by authenticating with the private key through encryption.
      Plaintext -> hash -> encryption (private key).      decryption -> hash

  AAA: Authentication, Authorization, and Accounting
  Authentication - Verifying the identity of a user or system. UserID and Password.
  Authorization -  Defines what actions or resources a user can access based on identification and authentication,
  Accounting - Tracking user activities and resources. Login time, data sent and received, and logout time.

  Authenticating systems often use digitally signed certificates to assign to authorized devices.
  Certificate authentication — An organization has a trusted Certificate Authority (CA) to create and verify digitally signed certificates.  
  Authorization models - create abstract groups to assign users and services <=> data and applications.

  Gap analysis - Perform research and review to determine where we are and where we want to be.
  Choosing the framework (i.e., NIST 800-171rev2 or ISO/IEC 27001) for the organization's formal standards.
  Evaluate people and processes; compare and contrast existing systems.

  Zero Trust—Implies that nothing is inherently trusted, including multi-factor authentication, encryption, system permissions, firewalls, monitoring, and analytics.
  Split the network info functional planes to define security policy for each: physical assets, virtual assets, and cloud assets.
  Data plane - (switches, routers, firewalls) processing, forwarding, trunking, encrypting, NAT frames and packets.
  Control plane - manages the actions of the data plane; policies, rules, routing tables, session tables, NAT tables.

  Adaptive identity - consider the requested resources to apply multiple risk indicators to increase the authentication factor.
  Threat scope reduction - decrease the number of possible entry points
  Policy-driven access control - combining adaptive identity with a predefined set of rules
  Security zones - trusted vs untrusted zones; internal vs external network; 
  Policy enforcement point (PEP) - policy decision point, policy engine, policy admin

  Physical Security - (i.e., Barricades/Bollards) - prevent access; channel traffic and access point; Warning signs.
  Access control vestibules (i.e., doors/fences) - designed to lock/unlock access to facilities
  Surveillance - CCTV, security guard, badge access, well lighting, sensors (infrared - motion, pressure - floor and windows, microwave - movements, ultrasonic - sound waves)


  Deception and Disruption - prevent bad actors from attacking your systems.
  Honeypots - attract bad guys as traps, virtual worlds to explore, cat & mouse game with attackers; open source for download.
  Honeynets (servers, routers, workstations cluster)
  Honeyfiles (fake files like password.txt)
  Honeytokens (traceable data - API credentials, fake email addresses)


1.3 Change Management, Technical Change Management - A formal process for upgrading/rolling back software changes, including how to make changes, their frequency, and clear policies.
  Change approval process - request forms, define the purpose, the scope, the affected resources, schedule date & time, and manager approval. 
  Ownership - An individual or entity needs to make changes and own the process; The owner manages the updates and ensures the process is followed.
  i.e., Address label printers need upgrading; the Shipping dept owns the process; IT handles the actual change.
  Stakeholders - who are impacted by the change. 
  i.e., Shipping labels: shipping dept; accounting reports; product delivery timeframes; revenue recognition (CEO visibility)
  Impact analysis - risk value (fix or not fix the issue, breaks something else, or data corruption); not making change (security vulnerability, downtime, and availability)
  Test results: Use the sandbox testing environment before making changes to production, and confirm the backout plan, such as backup systems.

  Allow list vs. Deny list: Nothing runs unless approved. It is very restrictive; it includes anti-virus and anti-malware.
  Restricted activities: The scope of a change is essential; do not change something outside of the scope. Expand the change only if necessary. Determine the next steps.
  Downtime — When the services and resources are unavailable, switch to a secondary system; the goal is to minimize downtime.
  Restarts system, services, or applications
  Legacy applications - beware that they may not be supported anymore, fear of the unknown.
  Dependencies - to update A, it needs to update B. Dependencies may be across platforms.
  Documentation - track Version control
  

1.4 Public Key Infrastructure, Encrypting Data, Key Exchange, Encryption Technologies, Obfuscation, Hashing and Digital Signatures, Blockchain Technology, Certificates
  Public Key Infrastructure (PKI) is the policies and procedures for creating, distributing, managing, storing, and revoking digital certificates.
  Symmetric encryption uses a single, shared key for both encryption and decryption. It's fast but doesn't scale very well.
  Asymmetric encryption involves two mathematically related keys (private and public keys). The private key is the only key that can decrypt data encrypted with the public key.

  Encrypting Data - Protect data on storage devices by encrypting an entire disk, folders, or a single file. Use BitLocker, FileVault, or Windows EFS.
  Database encryption to protect stored data with transparent encryption or record-level encryption.
  Transport encryption by protecting data traversing the network; Encrypting in the app (EX, browsers use HTTPS); VPN (Virtual private network) uses SSL/TLS or IPsec.
  Both sides (server and client) must agree upon encryption algorithms. Consider security level, speed, complexity of implementation, etc.
  Cryptographic keys - larger length prevents brute-force attacks: symmetric and Asymmetric encryption.
  Key Stretching (key strengthening) involves strengthening a weak key by performing multiple processes. The password is hashed. The hash of the password is hashed.

  Key Exchange: transferring keys is a logistical challenge — Out-of-band (telephone or in-person) vs. in-band (over the network) key exchange.
  Real-time encryption/decryption is needed for fast security. Share a symmetric session key using asymmetric encryption (session key).
  Session keys are temporary, change often, and need to be unpredictable.

  Encrypting Technologies - Trusted Platform Module (TPM): Cryptography hardware such as a cryptographic processor for key generators; 
  Persistent memory with unique keys burned during manufacturing; Versatile memory to store keys securely with BitLocker or password protected.
  Hardware Security Module (HSM): This is used in large environments (clusters or redundant power) to store thousands of cryptographic keys, backup keys, and cryptographic accelerators.
  Key management system: Services are everywhere. Manage all keys from a centralized manager. Manage all keys from one console.
  Secure enclave: hardware processor with real-time memory encryption to securely store data. 

  Obfuscation - Making something unclear and hiding info in plain sight. EX: Steganography. Picture, Audio, and Video steganography.
  Tokenization - Replacing sensitive data with a non-sensitive placeholder, which is common with credit card processing. This isn't encrypted or hashed.
  Data masking - Hiding some of the original data and protecting PII. For example, **** 1234 only shows the last four digits of the number's CC or SS.

  Hashing and Digital Signatures - Hashes represent data as a string of text; they are one-way trips that cannot be recovered or reversed.
  Hash functions should be unique and do not have collision problems. MD5 is a hash with collision.
  Hash is commonly used to verify downloaded files or store passwords. For example, store a salted hash for the password.
  Salted hash is when random data (salt) is added to a password when hashing. The salt is stored with the password. (password + gsEVx) = hash string.
  Rainbow tables (mapping all inputs to their hash equivalent) won't work with salted hashes due to added data (salt).
  Digital signatures provide integrity, authentication, and non-repudiation. They are signed with a private key and verified with the public key.

  Blockchain Technology - distributed ledger to keep track of transactions; Everyone maintains a copy of the ledger; Used in payment processing, supply chain, or digital voting.

  Certificates bind a public key with a digital signature. Certificate Authorities (CA) can add trust to a digital signature. 
  X.509 is a standard format for digital certificates.
  The root of trust is a trusted component provided by a third party through hardware/software/firmware.
  Certificate signing requests (CSR) is a process to request a CA to validate and sign the digital certificate for an app or website.
  Certificates can also be built in-house through Windows Certificate Services for internal web servers. Self-signed certificates.
  Certificate Revocation List (CRL) is maintained by the CA of all bad or decommissioned certificates.
  Online Certificate Status Protocol (OCSP) status is "stapled" into the SSL/TLS handshake to efficiently confirm the status of the certificate (digitally signed by the CA).
  
  



